Hey and welcome back.
Hopefully, you had some time to check out some of
the resources about each of the different encoding schemes.
In this video, we just wanted to go over a quick demonstration of
how to encode a file to hexadecimal to show you how easy it is.
To do this yourself, you'll need to open up
a terminal Window and cd into whichever directory you like.
I'll use my desktop.
First, let's convert back and forth between a string we type directly into the terminal.
To do this, type, xxd dash p Blockchain Developer.
What you'll get back is a hex encoded string that represents this text, there it is.
Now, if we want we can convert this back into its original string.
To do that, we type echo,
paste the hex encoded string you got, then the command,
xxd -r -p. What we get back is the original string, "Blockchain Developer".
All right, you've already encoded and decoded your first message.
The command xxd is a Linux command
that allows you to make a hex dumped or do the reverse.
If you're not totally sure what that means, it's what we just did.
A hex dump just provides the hex encoding for any value,
and the reverse is decoding it back into its original form.
Doing this in the Terminal is great,
but what if we want to get this information in the files?
Well, that's simple too.
In that case, you just need to provide the file names, we can do that now.
First, create a file using, touch hello.txt.
Open that file and type in whatever you like.
I'll type, Blockchain Developer.
Now, go back to your terminal and type the command,
xxd -p, followed by the file you want to convert,
and the new filename.
For me, that's hello.txt and helloEncoded.txt.
This creates the encoded file for you to view if you'd like.
Now that you have that, let's decode it.
To do this, we'll use -r to reverse the hex dump.
We'll follow this again with the original file and
the file you'd like to create, that looks like this.
I'll call my final file, helloDecoded.txt.
After running this, we can see that we're back in the original text file.
You can look at the file to see that is the same string that you had before.
Finally, let's try this with an image.
To get started, I'll go search for an image and bring it into my desktop.
I'll get a cat picture for now,
and rename it to something simple, cat.png.
Next, open your terminal then use the same command as before.
Type, xxd -p, followed by the name of your file,
and follow that with the name of the file you want the hex to be dumped to.
Running this encodes this image file as hexadecimal.
If you open it, you'll see that it's a lot longer than the text dump was.
Now, let's decode this back into its original image.
Type, xxd -p -r,
followed by the name of your file,
followed by the name of the file you want for your new PNG.
Now, we're back to our original image.
Pretty cool. All right, so that's it.
It's pretty quick and simple,
but it's interesting to see that you can begin working with these encodings for yourself.
We placed a couple of files down below the video with
a problem set you can use to try encoding and decoding.